[Music]
hello and welcome to the BBC good food
podcast with Tom courage I'm Orlando and
we're here today to talk about citing
ingredients cooking techniques and
general kitchen chat plus we have an
original Tom carriage recipe for you to
try out at home whether you're a
beginner or a budding chef hi and
welcome to this week's BBC good food
podcast with Tom carriage we're going to
be talking about pies Tom's got a great
recipe for one coming up but in the
meantime Tom I've got a question for you
what's your idea of a simply terrible
pie your pies is the worst question in
the world I tell you why because it pies
are more divisive than politics or which
football team or what's your favorite
color
or I like pies for me always have to
have a lid but there's so many out there
some don't have lids
I mean fish pie cottage pie shepherd's
pie they've all got mashed potato on
it's not pastry it needs to have pastry
so what makes a bad boy bad pastry bad
place it but also if it's not a pie at
all it sounds like you're objecting
pretty strongly yeah I mean like I get
the name a pie but for me a post got to
have pastry lids so fish pie no good
well it's called fish pie and it does
taste great however it's not really a
pie you're using that you're using the
term loosely
[Laughter]
do you prefer sweet or savory pies
savory every time like there's so much
about surprise there childhood memories
there's something that's wholesome it's
it's a little bit it's it's one of those
great British things I mean it's
something that we're associated with
it's amazing you you get brilliant pies
the flavor content that you can drive
them are outstanding that the types of
pastry you can use a beautiful whether
it's hot water paste
suet pastry whether it's short pastry
sweet pastry you can use so many
different address from the outside
there's so many variants to the fillings
are absolutely
and there's something that makes him it
the most beautiful thing is that it's
something that for me it's kind of like
memories of going to football go it go
into football go into watch rugby go
into it's it's a special treat they're
easy to make it's a way of using
leftovers I mean there are so many great
things about a pie everything everything
about it is amazing and very very
British yes it's part of our food
ancestry and it's so sad to think that
there are regional pies disappearing
which people don't make anymore but I
believe that is the case areas where
they've made a particular sort of meat
pie and then they stop doing it and you
can't get it back once people stopped
making them yeah well I think you could
probably get no I think it's sad that
manufacturers of making a particular pie
ago go out of business but I do think
that there's more there's there's this
there's much more scope to pies now
people like it chicken tikka pie or like
a I don't know all sorts of different
types of flavouring that go into it the
concept of it though is something that's
very specialized it's a thing wrapped in
pastry that tastes amazing that you can
hold in your hands if you want to you
know or you have it on a plate you can
do it posh and serve it with gravy you
know there's lots of different things
that become it's one of those things
that transcends all types they can be
cheap and cheerful football match or
they can be served in the top-end
restaurant in London and you don't mind
adventurous flavors people trying
something different and unusual in in
there no I don't mind them I wouldn't
choose it but I quite like the idea that
people will go and have a go at do is so
they special but it's again the
ingredients still have to be lovely
they've still got to be treated with
love and respect and made delicious
because someone good could treat it
could make a chicken tikka pie with
heart soul care and make it delicious
and someone could make a really bad
steak and ale pie which one is gonna be
the best well the one that's been looked
after and loved and cared that's the one
I'd rather eat irrespective of what the
filling is and it isn't necessarily down
to the cost of the ingredients so much
as the care with which they've been made
exactly as I thought pasty which I know
isn't you certainly wouldn't allow as
that pie that has traditionally I think
skirt of beef in it which is a cheap cut
but if you cook it beautifully it
becomes flavorsome and gorgeously
textured well I think that's where pies
have a huge selling point because they
contain gorgeous cuts of more I suppose
humble pieces of meat that have been
looked after loved and cared for that
then get put into beautiful pastry so
it's a way of utilizing it's a
cost-effective way in there filling
they're robust so it uses everything
you're not going to buy a fillip beef
and put it in a pie you might do it on
croute or a beef wellington but that
doesn't make it a point as it's wrapped
in pasties you see it's very very very
tricky this it's we've been talking
about British pies and British regional
pies but of course the French would say
that they make the most beautiful pies
with their fine patch sub-layer and all
their finesse that they have are you a
fan of French pies or do you think
they're not really pies in the same way
no things like they do where they do
pate on Crete whether they do these
amazing beautiful farmers patties that
are baked in in pastry that are then
served either hot or cold I think
they're absolutely fantastic hot water
craft stores that shortcrust it's a hot
water hot water crest and then they put
jelly like it's a super posh pop pop
yeah do you know what I mean and it's
done it but done like a terrine and
they're like oh we're the French
specialize in that kind of larder
classic lard of work where they you know
wonderful lattice tops and it's all
about showcase I think they do it so so
well however we are getting and we are
very good at it in this country I mean
we are great at it I would say we are
better pie makers but where they do
showcase cook chilled pies they they
make things very very special but for a
steak you wouldn't go to a French
football match and have a steak and ale
pie with it you know you go you go to
you go to a British football match in
the middle of winter and I've taken a
loafer that you'll really encapsulate in
British culture and absolutely love it
go to France to a football match I mean
what you haven't before
garlic snails I don't know what would
you have you know on that day you want
you want a pie
they have a real eye for food design I
think the French they know how to make
ptisserie look outstanding don't they
they're the biggest some of the biggest
skilled pastry chefs in the world of
French undoubtedly their their their
their understanding their technique
centuries of work gone on there and then
passed down through their apprentice
system I think they have real systems of
passing knowledge on don't they they do
so we'll Rob that pastry work and we'll
wrap it around our brilliant British
meat that's what we want or our great
vegetarian British potatoes and cheddar
cheese those of it so yeah we'll take
their pastry wit but we'll make the
filling ours and we'll make that's the
bit with flavor so I take it you're a
pork pie man love pork pie it's a very
odd piece of food it's very dense and
very chewy but there's something
marvelous about it it's amazing maybe
you need to have been brought up brought
up with it I'm not sure what Americans
would make of a pork pie the same ways
that they're mystified by Christmas
pudding yeah they don't quite know why
they're eating this strange piece of
food but no America I mean they got a
long way to go till they catch up with
Europe in terms of our taste buds and
where we go in the Americans we their
food is based on our exported
immigration over 200 years that you know
their food history they're building now
they're do you think how many years how
many centuries they are behind Europe in
terms of where our history of food is
and I didn't mean that in a bad way I
mean you know we've got years hundreds
of layers ariza centuries of swapped and
shared and understanding of dishes and
the way things have moved from you know
custard
well that's creme anglaise well no it's
not yes it is you know it goes backwards
and forwards the understanding of France
or British food or their paella and
risotto and there's so many things about
the whole of Europe and then
raviolis or pierogies that come from
Poland you know those kind of things
that are just this European food is so
rich and diverse in history there's over
those centuries as emulsified and grown
and become and a great understanding of
what great European food is the
Americans that they've got a long way to
go for histor history wise for their
food to get to where they find on a
level playing field
so yeah I could see why they would think
a port boy is confusing however it is
one of the greatest things ever invented
by in black pudding although the person
that came up with black pudding like the
first person they went you know what we
do with his pig's blood let's warm it up
a little bit see if it sets and what
does it taste like I mean that it was a
brave man but he was he's he's a little
bit like me alarm strong for me like he
took that brave step he went for it and
look what he came up with I have to ask
you where do you stand on kidney because
this is very divisive we asked our
Twitter following what they thought of
kidney and it was a resounding no I am
in that group I'm afraid I am NOT even
though I look like it I look like a
bloke that pushes on with loads of awful
I'm not that guy I eat it odd you know
and I'm very happy taste everything like
don't get me wrong but if you give me
the choice of a steak and kidney pudding
or a beef and a or one I'll go with a
steak in a or one not the one with kid
missing
I'm just not this big flavor it's strong
it's overpowering it's it's it's a
massive flavor
it's ox kidney as well that they usually
put into pies and puddings I think which
is a slightly crude tasting a real kind
of pazam dose of bitterness really
whereas kidneys like little lambs
kidneys and things like that are
manageable for me anyway but yeah I mean
they're manageable the taste kind of
overrides the pie doesn't it yeah so
we're good to give a thumbs down to two
irony I mean I'm in the kidney out camp
I'm not breaking on custard pies I want
to know what you think of custard pie
what is wrong with you have you got
pastry on the top so I know that you
will only really just about let it in as
a pie at all so a sitar across guitar
okay now we had a question from from our
Twitter following from Johanna Jenkins
what's the difference between a pounder
tart well-posed got a lid on a partner
tart is underneath only on its heart is
no lid yes right all right what would
clarify she's gonna be a happy girl
isn't she Johanna Jenkins we've solved
her problem very good one yeah and so a
custard pie how do you get the it takes
on that kind of flat
as the pastry doesn't it's very hard to
get that pastry crisp underneath all
that custard can it be done yes so this
kind of like - I suppose two very famous
ways of making the cutter tart so
there's the Nutmeg cutter type that we
make in the the I suppose very British
where you sweet pastry and you bake it
and you blind bake it and you that's
where you've got to make it nice and
crisp Bindra and cooked and cooked all
the way through and many recipes to tell
you Brian Baker tart for 15 to 20
minutes you want to do that use 4045
minutes until you know on a lower
temperature and it's it's like a biscuit
its processed I believe yeah then a
little bit of an egg glaze on it okay
and then that gives that beaten egg or
egg white or egg yolk I would do it is
egg yellow cake okay and that goes in
cult you brush the nicer thing when it's
cold when it's hot when it's hot so just
that brushing when the target comes
straight out of the oven brush it then
and that the heat of the tart will cook
the egg and seal it in then you make
your custard mix your nutmeg infused
custard mix you want to cook it in a pan
up to around about 68 degrees before you
pour it into the tart so it's already
got a chance of being cooked then you
pour it into the tart then you put it
into an oven at about 120 and take it
till it's around about 75 maybe 80
degrees centigrade and then take it out
and then grate a load of nutmeg all over
the top just get one of those
temperature probes into the middle and
that's when you'll know it's good great
a load and nutmeg over the top then and
then you leave it to just chill for an
hour and that's when you take a slice
and you just have this perfectly set
beautiful wobbly custard tart that's
delicious and that way the pastry would
be nice and crisp and and the custard
just set but the other custard tarts
that you're talking about it's kind of
like almost like the Portuguese or
Chinese yes where where they're kind of
rough puff pastry that's been pushed
into a mold and then it's kind of a
custard mix that's made with corn flour
that you pour in to raw pastry and you
bake them on a slightly higher
temperature because it's got a corn
flour base in it it means you can cook
it without the eggs splitting but that
that's where that kind of mix soaks a
little bit into the pastry and that's
where you've got that kind of crispy
outside gooey pastry
and then the custard inside so there's
two slightly and you're transported to
Lisbon with every bite Lisbon or Hong
Kong they're very similar Oh Chinese
ones are a little sweeter I want to ask
you about the thermometer you're using a
thermometer digital thermometer yeah I
love my digital thermometer I worship it
and I just wish everyone had a
thermometer but I don't think everyone's
got one yet best 15 quid you'll ever
spend it's the best creat everyone asked
me at Christmas right how'd you cook a
turkey and I tell me you got cook the
middle to a particular temperature how
you gonna know that by digging one of
these thermometers into the breast meat
to know when it's cooked it's the best
all the rubbish we buy at Christmas for
ten or fifteen quid is a joke present
for somebody you know like a cup that
says something rude on it or a whoopee
cushion or whatever it like forget that
buy one of those it was it will save you
so much time and effort and worry about
cooking mine was a bit more expensive
than that I've got one of the folding
ones that yeah instant you put it in it
takes about two seconds which is
brilliant but I think it was about 40
quid mine but you don't need to spend 40
quid you don't think you can no you
didn't need to spend 40 quid Eva
obviously thought I was worth 40 but my
cooking need it for burns worth of
improvement have you ever been to a pion
math shop i have fascinated by the tell
me about pine hi Masha liqueur so it's
kind of has this sauce so I mean it's in
the East End favorite where it's it's
proper again there it's sad one of those
things that are beginning to die out but
it is a case of having pie with mashed
potato and a liqueur which is kind of
like like a parsley infused kind of
cooking stock basically this thickened
is poured over the top and it's
delicious it's wholesome his hearty it
was built therefore it's one of those
dishes that for working-class bloke from
the his past history of working in the
docks in East London and or doing those
jobs that were the industrial types of
jobs that were down there filling
robust kind of like every food that
comes from industrial areas it's about
keeping people going filling them up
like or nasty really exactly and it
tastes and means taste delicious
what sort of what flavour is is the pie
or do hook at a choice
you could get a choice but meat pies
meat meat pies and what about the the
restaurant environment is it very
old-fashioned or there's some kind of
funky ultra-modern pie mesh a kind of
new wave I haven't been to a new wave
one but I have been to think they're
almost like greasy spoon cafes that kind
of like with Formica kind of wiped clean
time exactly that yeah yeah and are they
cheap yeah yeah I mean they are they're
built for people that are that work you
know it's kind of it's not it's not a
posh environment but it's a great
environment it's brilliant it's hearty
wholesome London cab drivers hang out
there it's that kind of space it's
brilliant I'm gonna put that on my to-do
list and F anything they're probably
about what half a dozen left or they're
more than that do you think I don't know
I I can't imagine there's a lot I can't
imagine there's a lot it sounds a really
valuable thing for us to keep and it
could become quite popular again but
agree is that were the rebirth of the
East End don't you think a hundred
percent I think the more regeneration
that goes in the problem is someone I'm
not doing a super posh one and it'll go
away from being free Pam 54 a poet a
13-pound 50 and and it certainly becomes
with one of those gentrified things like
we always tend to do but that's I
suppose that comes when you take
something a base level that it's hearty
and wholesome and delicious and when it
represents what it stands for and then
use amazing ingredients and then use all
of this you know top end stuff and turn
something that's got the heart and soul
of something special and then you take
it from an ingredient level into another
level so yeah but I could I could see a
top-end gentrified pie and pie mash and
liquor shop appearing in London at some
point soon where there's an idea of you
Tom yeah I'm already thinking about it I
know that you worked for Gary Rhodes
earlier in your career and he he was
doing that thing called new British
cuisine where he took the old regional
dishes and kind of revamped them I bet
at some point he had to go at Pine mash
and did a modernized version of it don't
you think
oh yeah no hundred percent me you used
to do mash with Gary all the time and
pies where parties were huge you should
do
suet pudding steamed suet pies oh yeah
suet pudding which was absolutely
delicious Gary was greater that and it
was he was
he really kind of invented that movement
didn't he yeah and it was it was one of
those things where we were all now
celebrating British food and and I call
it a no we call it new British however
their dishes have been around for ages
bread and butter pudding seems to it
seems to it put in just simple to means
and flavored soups and just very very
very simple cooking of British
ingredients but done exceptionally well
and he made them look beautiful he was
very very creative guy he was very good
as creative guy yeah but very very good
at making three ingredients sing the
simplest taking things away from the
plate rather than putting things on it
yeah yeah and I'm standing a great great
great one of the first TV superstars
really I remember people nobody was
screaming for him outside the NEC when
he was gonna make a performance which
price do you serve in your restaurant so
we do at the coaching in Marlow we do
lots of different ones we change them
seasonally as and when they move we did
game pies we do we do beef pies we do
chicken in tarragon will do and they we
cook them on a rotisserie and the hand
of flour says quite often a pie on the
set lunch which is always normally beef
which is great and then they feel quite
lunchtime e in a way that everything
that you know gets you through the
afternoon
exactly so will you go out mrs. dinner
like a poison always feel posh enough
does it because you've gone out for
dinner but they're always on the menu
and a carriages Bar and Grill in the
Senate retained we have a pig's cheek
pie which is absolutely delicious and
it's shaped into like a pig snout on the
top so it's kind of like and that served
with clotted cream mashed potato oh wow
very crispy black pudding on the top so
it's pie a mash like and it's absolutely
rides clever man yeah well yeah it's
lovely I mean they're there they're all
loved they're all lovely but I'm a big
lover of pies and they're on they appear
on all three restaurants and we said
we've also got a butcher's as well where
we serve we serve lots of different pies
I mean that's probably our main pilot
where we have lots of different poison
the butchers is also a pub crossover so
you go in in the evening it's just sober
it's a pub with beer and Sky Sports on
and you watch a telly and what and you
can have a pint but we also serve pies
and we heat a pies up for you so you
have pie and mash and the point of the
job done
still to come on BBC good foods podcast
with Tom Tareq anything that anyone
wants to know I am a doctor I have an
honorary doctorate in philosophy so yeah
there you go
oh well now we know keep those problems
coming on Twitter and we'll do our best
to mop them up as we roll through the
subjects not about philosophy for
actually I mean I have got an honorary
Doctorate but don't ask me anything on
philosophy well we're gonna eat a pie in
just a moment I've got some questions to
ask you first about pastry okay very
exercised about pastry and our Twitter
following have been sending us their
worries about pastry a couple of them
you've already covered about how to
avoid a soggy bottom yeah Victoria
summers is finds that her shortcrust
pastry falls apart when she rolls it out
okay happening there it's not moist
enough it's not gone after working a bit
more water just a little splash of water
it's got to feel slightly elastic it's
got to feel that it comes together like
and also if she's resting it it might be
too cold in the fridge it's got to leave
it to come to room temperature if you've
rested it in the fridge and take out
leave its come to room temperature and
roll it it's just got feels like it's a
little dry in the first place I know
it's short crust but they're short crust
and then there's just sure yeah you got
it I'm gonna get a possible dimension
you want it you want it rolled out ball
but no more moist than that exactly so
Victoria popping a bit a little bit more
liquid um I don't think people make
rough puff or puff pastry at home but
they do make beautiful pies yeah do you
have a preference for short crust rough
Hufflepuff when it comes or flaky flaky
is in between yeah that kind of folded
and rolled and mixed together and rolled
out and and then I even for an hour get
out rolled out that is for home cook
that's quite an investment in time
because we're not in the kitchen all day
anyway so to go back after an hour is
actually you know we've gone out into
the shops or something doing something
instead but of course in the restaurant
you can you can go back exactly we're
always on it but you can buy very very
good puff pastry now you can buy very
very good all butter puff pastry from
the supermarkets that do a great
great job filo pastry again you can buy
they taste it's a great alternative for
things it's lighter it's fresher it's
cleaner it's it's crisp it but it's not
like a it's not um if you're looking at
doing a base or something very solid in
it without it feeling isn't robust
enough to hold it's too dry but I like
making a hot water paste for pies and
that's a really nice way of doing it
skort it's very quick it's very easy
that's very long is that the lard and
flour and hot water and yet something up
and that's it yeah you bring it up to
the ball and then you act you whisk in
the butter and bring it up to the boil I
the lard or butter you can use and then
you pour in the flour bring it together
on your on your machine and just hold
hold the whole dough in wrapping cling
film stick it in the fridge leave it to
rest but it's still very is easy to roll
it's really it's really forgiving it's
really thick and is that you use that a
bit thicker than shortcuts do you or do
get like a roll it's thin and do you
blind bake that or or do not need to yes
you can blind bake that but some quite
often it's quite nice too it depends on
the sort of pie but normally we roll it
quite thin fill the stuff in and then
bake it so you don't need to because if
you can roll it thin enough it'll
caramelize and cook nicely anyway and
the and it whatever reason it doesn't
absorb the moisture from the filling and
get all soggy
exactly cause people don't seem to want
one sogginess no cook it for longer like
every pastry you're using if they're
getting soggy it's because it's not
being cooked for long enough yeah you
bet this is the biggest thing the food
is people rush it you can't rush it you
just got to take your time and it's
ready when it's ready not when it says
in the recipe book if in the recipe book
it says 20 minutes you take it out after
20 minutes and it's not ready it's a
it's not the books fault
like it's the you know it would be ready
when it's ready and you'll only get that
from practice and learning whenever we
talk about cooking temperatures you
always say it's surprisingly long
numbers and I'm thinking to myself 40
minutes to blind bake a thing what if
I'm is oh my goodness yeah you can blind
bake it the day before you need it so
much as so much of good cookery is an
understanding of structure and that's
what you you put that into your life
then you can do it if you're going to
make a cake for Sunday or you're gonna
make a you're gonna make a custard tart
for Sunday you can make the pastry on
Wednesday you can roll it out on Friday
you can blind bake it on Saturday then
you could put the custard in on Sunday
you can spend time making it now Sara
Lily another rod Twitter followers gosh
they're keen on pies I tell you she's
got a problem of her pastry lid
shrinking okay not rested enough that
yeah not rested enough that's gone on
too early not rested enough and baked
you see we've got dr. Tom here anything
that anyone wants to know I have an
honorary doctorate in philosophy so yeah
there you go oh well now we know keep
those problems coming on Twitter and
we'll do our best to mock them artists
will roll through the subjects do not
invite philosophy for actually I mean I
have got an honorary Doctorate but don't
ask me anything on philosophically
greatest philosopher all times Liam
Gallagher as far as I'm concerned what
would you serve a pie with it says mash
the best thing yeah I think mash is good
I mean today to contrast with them I
mean it's not too much she's quite good
ok and it's great if it you're out and
about in Europe I don't know you've got
it in a polystyrene Train you're a
football match or you're sat somewhere
in it it's delicious
however I think when you're at home I
like really I&E greens with it ago were
actually probably there's enough
carbohydrate in a pastry the filling is
delicious I like I like really irony
cabbage and like really beautiful things
like things like Cal Vilonia goes with
it really nicely all history cabbages or
something that's got this wonderful
vibrancy ine flavor that came to kind of
counterbalance the robustus and the
richness of the pie that's what I'm kind
of really characterful vegetable to take
on and take it on and not just vanish
yeah but not necessarily a root
vegetable like good brassicas that's a
good brassicas go with a good pie and
would you always serve a pie with gravy
or a sauce or do you sometimes get
enough kind of juiciness going on inside
the pie that doesn't need never enough
sort always give extra extra gravy for
everything
always give extra great do you do
drizzle on that that on the plate before
the plate goes out would you give people
a little kind of sauce part of their own
of gravy oh I think a big sauce boat in
the middle and everyone gravy in the
middle everyone help themselves that and
English mustard perfect the jelly in
pork pie yes something that some people
find a bit weird there isn't actually
that much jelly in the normal pork pie
but I remember when I was a kid there
did seem a lot of jelly like rolling
around the place it was very weird thing
for a kid to eat yeah should be good it
is amazing and what it all that all the
jelly is is set stock you know the stock
that you've cooked some of the kind of
solid sauce it's the sauce that's said
exactly that yeah yeah exactly that so a
lot of people don't know that when you
go to a posh restaurant the sauce that
they have the red wine sauce or whatever
else it's only in liquid form once it's
heated up yes sat in the fridge it's
solidified it's made with the roasting
of bones and all that yeah and that's
exactly what's gone into a pork pie it's
flate it's meat flavor it's just a
chilled sauce if you were to heat that
pork pie up the jelly goes in hot you
know that's how why it's that liquid and
as it shows it sets yeah
so it's its own it's only like meat
stock I don't be scared of don't be
scared of jelly
I know sometimes for decoration at posh
buffets they they cut but aspic is is
what we're talking about is the kind of
clear version of it and they cut it into
diamonds and funny shapes they certainly
used to in the in the days of that sort
of food presentation that's a bit much I
mean or would you leap reach for one of
the little no I diamond shake things go
on beyond that you know those days of
1970s and 80s
cooking where you go this is this is how
the posh people do it or is it Fanny
Cradock god bless that yeah exactly I
kind of get that but it's almost like
that's that's kind of like what posh
hotels did in the era where we used to
have pineapple on stick stuck out of a
baked potato to look like a hedgehog you
know we don't do that anymore like even
kids parties don't do that anymore like
we've kind of moved on retro retro
seventies parties still do them I'm glad
to say
yeah but do
I'm feeling a bit peckish and I think
it's time to launch our chicken and leek
phyllo pie oh yes I wonder well well
Jack our burden our producer's assistant
is helping us to the table with this
beautiful creation I want to ask you a
bit about handling phyllo you mentioned
phyllo as being a great kind of clean
light sort of pastry that is a thing of
beauty and I have to tell everyone that
it's sprinkled with Nigella seeds aren't
they yeah and it looks really cute like
basically onion seeds they're tasty and
delicious if the oh we're gonna get a
great sound we're gonna get one of our
sound effects Tom or are we ready you
ready yeah that is real everyone that is
the sound of Tom carriage filo pastry
being snapped crackled so this is kind
of one of those this is almost a case of
being able to use it as leftover so the
chicken is kind of like leftover from
Sunday lunch kind of stuffing a throne
and the filo is one of those things that
you have in the fridge or the freezer
it's easy to use and it's being used
here as a topping we've served it in a
pie dish okay so it's served in a pie
dish filled the chicken mix in it it's
got leeks in it
mushrooms and it's one of those lovely
things and the phyllo is really
important that goes on the top now when
I'm dealing with phyllo I buy my pack of
phyllo and every time I buy the phyllo
sheets seem to be different size some of
them like cover the table some of them a
little square things I've never seen
around one yeah do you just cut them up
with scissors to be the size and shape
you need or do you get you fold them try
and fold them try and put them out on a
large chopping board
yeah brushing brushing with butter right
it doesn't matter stick them all
together and then cut it to the shape
that you want so if it's three layers
give it that little brush we'll spray
with oil and then put the next one on
then put the next one and then cut it
where you want so stick it together
first then shape it right because I
think the suggestion here was to fandom
that fan the the leaf so that you get
the little angular bits that we've got
sticking out but this one was about this
is about texture on the top so this
isn't about actually it doesn't really
matter what size your feeling is or what
shape it is
you can just stick it on the top and lay
under or over exactly so as always I
think we found that I worry too much
about ties there Tom and then you just
say I'll just put it there it's ideal
the way it is so I think you spend your
time worrying about ingredients and
things that really matter whereas I'm
worrying about you know the shape of
phyllo it leaves so one of the biggest
things I say is chefs when they come in
our kitchen is that they worry about
what the food looks like the listen it's
always good you gotta have beautiful
presented food but if chefs in the
kitchen they're constantly worried about
what it looks like it's only ever gonna
look that beautiful in front of the
customer once and that's when it goes in
front of them the moment they've put
their fork in it and change it that
picture is gone
all that work you've put into making it
look beautiful which is obviously very
important when people get it but it's
gone once they've then got the next 15
minutes of eating it if you haven't
concentrated on what it tastes like
they've got 15 minutes of eating
something rubbish and the or and it now
looks rubbish as well
I'd rather something went in front of
somebody looking like well that's no
that's alright and then they're eating a
why that's amazing always about flavor
first always always always and
especially when you're at home you know
you've not got a team of chefs at home
concentrate on getting great flavors
making it taste delicious putting this
in front of the table with four guests
out in front of you they'll go oh yeah
that looks nice but then when they taste
it again well that's great
they've got do you know what go round
two Orlando's 40 again cuz he makes a
great feature I love the Nigella seeds
on top by the way very inspirate but
they also have a lovely flavour as well
I know from my magazine experience that
there are some dishes that as you say
art there's no point in trying to make
them look beautiful because you just end
up putting things on top of them
things like risotto do look a bit drab
on the plate and yet they're wonderful
to eat so we just need to take a deep
breath and love them for what they are
rather than turn them into you know some
fandango with goodness knows what all
disguising them food should never be
about making it look the most beautiful
it should always be about making it
taste the most beaut
for I mean the end of the day we're
putting it in our mouths yes food is
visual yes you get enticed into it but
what it looks like and smells like an
all of those sort of things but the most
important thing always is does it taste
nice I can't think of any better way
that to end our show today them on those
optimistic cheerful notes so thank you
very much indeed Tom and it's a
delicious pie it's a pleasure thank you
for listening to today's show you'll
find the recipe and thousands more on
BBC good food comm if you have a minute
we'd love to hear from you on Twitter
Facebook or Instagram at BBC good food
[Music]